# Responding to Events

React lets you add event handlers to your JSX.
Event handlers are your own functions that
will be triggered in response to interactions
like clicking, hovering, focusing form inputs, and so on.

### You will learn

- Different ways to write an event handler
- How to pass event handling logic from a parent component
- How events propagate and how to stop them

## Adding event handlers

To add an event handler,
you will first define a function
and then pass it as a prop
to the appropriate JSX tag.
For example,
here is a button that doesn’t do anything yet:

```jsx
// App.js
export default function Button() {
  return <button>I don't do anything</button>;
}
```

You can make it show a message
when a user clicks by following these three steps:

1. Declare a function called handleClick inside your Button component.
2. Implement the logic inside that function (use alert to show the message).
3. Add onClick={handleClick} to the \<button> JSX.

```jsx
// App.js
export default function Button() {
  function handleClick() {
    alert("You clicked me!");
  }

  return <button onClick={handleClick}>Click me</button>;
}
```

You defined the handleClick function
and then passed it as a prop to \<button>.
handleClick is an event handler.
Event handler functions:

- Are usually defined inside your components.
- Have names that start with handle,
  followed by the name of the event.

By convention,
it is common to name event handlers as handle
followed by the event name.
You’ll often see onClick={handleClick},
onMouseEnter={handleMouseEnter}, and so on.

Alternatively, you can define an event handler inline in the JSX:

```jsx
<button onClick={function handleClick() {
  alert('You clicked me!');
}}>
```

Or, more concisely, using an arrow function:

```jsx
<button onClick={() => {
  alert('You clicked me!');
}}>
```

All of these styles are equivalent.
Inline event handlers are convenient for short functions.

### Pitfall

Functions passed to event handlers
must be passed,
not called.
For example:

| passing a function (correct)    | calling a function (incorrect)    |
| ------------------------------- | --------------------------------- |
| \<button onClick={handleClick}> | \<button onClick={handleClick()}> |

The difference is subtle.
In the first example,
the handleClick function
is passed as an onClick event handler.
This tells React
to remember it
and
only call your function
when the user clicks the button.

In the second example,
the () at the end of handleClick()
fires the function immediately during rendering,
without any clicks.
This is because JavaScript inside the JSX { and }
executes right away.

When you write code inline,
the same pitfall presents itself in a different way:

| passing a function (correct)           | calling a function (incorrect)   |
| -------------------------------------- | -------------------------------- |
| \<button onClick={() => alert('...')}> | \<button onClick={alert('...')}> |

Passing inline code like this won’t fire on click
—it fires every time the component renders:

```jsx
// This alert fires when the component renders, not when clicked!
<button onClick={alert('You clicked me!')}>
```

If you want to define your event handler inline,
wrap it in an anonymous function like so:

```jsx
<button onClick={() => alert('You clicked me!')}>
```

Rather than executing the code inside with every render,
this creates a function
to be called later.

In both cases,
what you want to pass is a function:

- \<button onClick={handleClick}> passes the handleClick function.
- \<button onClick={() => alert('...')}> passes the () => alert('...') function.

Read more about arrow functions.

## Reading props in event handlers

Because event handlers are declared inside of a component,
they have access to the component’s props.
Here is a button that, when clicked,
shows an alert with its message prop:

```jsx
// App.js
function AlertButton({ message, children }) {
  return <button onClick={() => alert(message)}>{children}</button>;
}

export default function Toolbar() {
  return (
    <div>
      <AlertButton message="Playing!">Play Movie</AlertButton>
      <AlertButton message="Uploading!">Upload Image</AlertButton>
    </div>
  );
}
```

This lets these two buttons show different messages.
Try changing the messages passed to them.

## Passing event handlers as props

Often
you’ll want the parent component
to specify a child’s event handler.
Consider buttons:
depending on where you’re using a Button component,
you might want to execute a different function
—perhaps one plays a movie
and another uploads an image.

To do this,
pass a prop the component receives
from its parent
as the event handler
like so:

```jsx
// App.js
function Button({ onClick, children }) {
  return <button onClick={onClick}>{children}</button>;
}

function PlayButton({ movieName }) {
  function handlePlayClick() {
    alert(`Playing ${movieName}!`);
  }

  return <Button onClick={handlePlayClick}>Play "{movieName}"</Button>;
}

function UploadButton() {
  return <Button onClick={() => alert("Uploading!")}>Upload Image</Button>;
}

export default function Toolbar() {
  return (
    <div>
      <PlayButton movieName="Kiki's Delivery Service" />
      <UploadButton />
    </div>
  );
}
```

Here, the Toolbar component renders
a PlayButton and an UploadButton:

- PlayButton passes handlePlayClick
  as the onClick prop
  to the Button inside.
- UploadButton passes () => alert('Uploading!')
  as the onClick prop
  to the Button inside.

Finally, your Button component accepts a prop called onClick.
It passes that prop directly to the built-in browser \<button> with onClick={onClick}.
This tells React
to call
the passed function on click.

If you use a design system,
it’s common for components like buttons
to contain styling
but not specify behavior.
Instead, components like PlayButton and UploadButton
will pass event handlers down.

## Naming event handler props

Built-in components
like \<button> and \<div>
only support browser event names
like onClick.
However, when you’re building your own components,
you can name their event handler props
any way that you like.

By convention,
event handler props
should start with on,
followed by a capital letter.

For example,
the Button component’s onClick prop
could have been called onSmash:

```jsx
// App.js
function Button({ onSmash, children }) {
  return <button onClick={onSmash}>{children}</button>;
}

export default function App() {
  return (
    <div>
      <Button onSmash={() => alert("Playing!")}>Play Movie</Button>
      <Button onSmash={() => alert("Uploading!")}>Upload Image</Button>
    </div>
  );
}
```

In this example,
\<button onClick={onSmash}> shows that
the browser \<button> (lowercase)
still needs a prop called onClick,
but the prop name
received by your custom Button component
is up to you!

When your component
supports multiple interactions,
you might name event handler props
for app-specific concepts.
For example,
this Toolbar component
receives onPlayMovie and onUploadImage event handlers:

```jsx
// App.js
export default function App() {
  return (
    <Toolbar
      onPlayMovie={() => alert("Playing!")}
      onUploadImage={() => alert("Uploading!")}
    />
  );
}

function Toolbar({ onPlayMovie, onUploadImage }) {
  return (
    <div>
      <Button onClick={onPlayMovie}>Play Movie</Button>
      <Button onClick={onUploadImage}>Upload Image</Button>
    </div>
  );
}

function Button({ onClick, children }) {
  return <button onClick={onClick}>{children}</button>;
}
```

Notice
how the App component
does not need to know
what Toolbar will do
with onPlayMovie or onUploadImage.
That’s an implementation detail of the Toolbar.
Here,
Toolbar passes them down
as onClick handlers
to its Buttons,
but it could later also trigger them
on a keyboard shortcut.
Naming props after
app-specific interactions
like onPlayMovie
gives you the flexibility
to change
how they’re used later.

## Event propagation

Event handlers
will also catch events
from any children your component might have.
We say that
an event “bubbles” or “propagates” up the tree:
it starts with where the event happened,
and then goes up the tree.

This \<div> contains two buttons.
Both the \<div> and each button
have their own onClick handlers.
Which handlers do you think
will fire
when you click a button?

```jsx
// App.js
export default function Toolbar() {
  return (
    <div
      className="Toolbar"
      onClick={() => {
        alert("You clicked on the toolbar!");
      }}
    >
      <button onClick={() => alert("Playing!")}>Play Movie</button>
      <button onClick={() => alert("Uploading!")}>Upload Image</button>
    </div>
  );
}
```

If you click on either button,
its onClick will run first,
followed by the parent \<div>’s onClick.
So two messages will appear.
If you click the toolbar itself,
only the parent\<div>’s onClick will run.

### Pitfall

All events propagate in React
except onScroll,
which only works on the JSX tag you attach it to.

## Stopping propagation

Event handlers
receive an event object
as their only argument.
By convention,
it’s usually called e,
which stands for “event”.
You can use this object
to read information about the event.

That event object also lets you stop the propagation.
If you want to prevent an event
from reaching parent components,
you need to call e.stopPropagation()
like this Button component does:

```jsx
// App.js
function Button({ onClick, children }) {
  return (
    <button
      onClick={(e) => {
        e.stopPropagation();
        onClick();
      }}
    >
      {children}
    </button>
  );
}

export default function Toolbar() {
  return (
    <div
      className="Toolbar"
      onClick={() => {
        alert("You clicked on the toolbar!");
      }}
    >
      <Button onClick={() => alert("Playing!")}>Play Movie</Button>
      <Button onClick={() => alert("Uploading!")}>Upload Image</Button>
    </div>
  );
}
```

When you click on a button:

<ol>
  <li>React calls the onClick handler passed to \<button>.</li>
  <li>That handler,
  defined in Button,
  does the following:</li>
  <ul>
    <li>Calls e.stopPropagation(),
    preventing the event from bubbling further.</li>
    <li>Calls the onClick function,
    which is a prop passed from the Toolbar component.</li>
  </ul>
  <li>That function,
  defined in the Toolbar component,
  displays the button’s own alert.</li>
  <li>Since the propagation was stopped,
  the parent <div>’s onClick handler does not run.</li>
</ol>

As a result of e.stopPropagation(),
clicking on the buttons
now only shows a single alert (from the \<button>)
rather than the two of them
(from the \<button> and the parent toolbar \<div>).
Clicking a button
is not the same thing
as clicking the surrounding toolbar,
so stopping the propagation
makes sense for this UI.

### DEEP DIVE

Capture phase events

In rare cases,
you might need to catch all events on child elements,
even if they stopped propagation.
For example,
maybe you want to log every click to analytics,
regardless of the propagation logic.
You can do this
by adding Capture at the end of the event name:

```jsx
<div
  onClickCapture={() => {
    /* this runs first */
  }}
>
  <button onClick={(e) => e.stopPropagation()} />
  <button onClick={(e) => e.stopPropagation()} />
</div>
```

Each event propagates in three phases:

1. It travels down,
   calling all onClickCapture handlers.
2. It runs the clicked element’s onClick handler.
3. It travels upwards,
   calling all onClick handlers.

Capture events are useful for code
like routers or analytics,
but you probably won’t use them in app code.

## Passing handlers as alternative to propagation

Notice how this click handler runs a line of code and then calls the onClick prop passed by the parent:

```jsx
function Button({ onClick, children }) {
  return (
    <button
      onClick={(e) => {
        e.stopPropagation();
        onClick();
      }}
    >
      {children}
    </button>
  );
}
```

You could
add more code to this handler
before calling the parent onClick event handler, too.
This pattern provides an alternative to propagation.
It lets the child component handle the event,
while also letting the parent component specify some additional behavior.
Unlike propagation,
it’s not automatic.
But the benefit of this pattern is that
you can clearly follow the whole chain of code that
executes as a result of some event.

If you rely on propagation
and it’s difficult to trace
which handlers execute and why,
try this approach instead.

## Preventing default behavior

Some browser events
have default behavior
associated with them.
For example,
a \<form> submit event,
which happens when a button inside of it is clicked,
will reload the whole page by default:

```jsx
// App.js
export default function Signup() {
  return (
    <form onSubmit={() => alert("Submitting!")}>
      <input />
      <button>Send</button>
    </form>
  );
}
```
